docs/sessions.md, before:

# Sessions

**Problem:** Most agent orchestration focuses on agents talking to each other, batch operations, and strict sandboxes. This makes it hard for *you* to see what's happening or step in when needed. For long-running agent work, you need a lightweight, local solution where you can observe, review, and interject at any point—with sessions that persist if you disconnect, preserve history, and can be reviewed after completion.

**Problem:** Even with visibility, there's grunt work—spinning up sessions, creating workspaces, typing the same prompts. These small tasks steal attention from the actual problem you're trying to solve.

---

## Tmux-Based Sessions

Each coding agent runs interactively in its own tmux session.

- Sessions persist after the agent process exits
- Attach via terminal anytime: `tmux attach -t schmux-<session-id>`
- Full terminal access for debugging or manual intervention

---

## Session Lifecycle

```
spawning → running → done → disposed
```

- **Spawning**: Creating the workspace and starting the agent
- **Running**: Agent is actively working
- **Done**: Agent has exited; session preserved for review
- **Disposed**: Session removed from tracking; tmux session deleted

---

## Spawning Sessions

### New Workspace
Creates a fresh git clone with a clean slate:

```bash
schmux spawn -t claude -r myproject -b feature-branch
```

### Existing Workspace
Reuses directory; adds another agent to the mix:

```bash
schmux spawn -t codex -w myproject-001
```

### Options
- `-t, --target`: Which target to run (detected tool, variant, or user-defined)
- `-r, --repo`: Repository name (for new workspace)
- `-b, --branch`: Git branch to checkout
- `-w, --workspace`: Existing workspace ID
- `-n, --nickname`: Optional nickname for easy identification
- `-p, --prompt`: Optional prompt to send

---

## Bulk Operations

Spawn multiple sessions at once:

```bash
schmux spawn -t claude -t codex -t gemini -r myproject -b feature-x
```

Dashboard also supports:
- **Bulk create sessions** across the same or new workspaces
- **On-demand workspace creation** when spawning
- **Nicknames** for easy identification

---

## Visibility

Now you've got a dozen concurrent sessions. You don't want to spend your day clicking into each terminal to figure out what's happening. You need to know at a glance: which are still working, which are blocked, which are done, which you've already reviewed, and where to focus your attention next.

### Dashboard Shows

- **Real-time terminal output** via WebSocket
- **Last activity**: When the agent last produced output
- **When you last viewed**: Timestamp of when you last looked at the session
- **NudgeNik status**: Blocked, wants feedback, working, or done

### Status Indicators

- **Running**: Agent is actively working
- **Stopped**: Agent has exited (done)
- **Waiting**: Agent is waiting for input or approval
- **Error**: Session failed to start or crashed

---

## Attach Commands

Each session has a tmux attach command for direct terminal access:

```bash
tmux attach -t schmux-abc123
```

Available from:
- Dashboard: Copy attach command button
- CLI: `schmux attach <session-id>`

---

## Session Persistence

Sessions persist after the agent process exits for review:

- Terminal output is preserved
- Session remains in dashboard
- Mark as done when finished
- Dispose explicitly when no longer needed

---

## Log Rotation

Terminal logs are stored in `~/.schmux/logs/<session-id>.log`. When a log file exceeds the configured size threshold (`xterm.max_log_size_mb`, default 50MB), it's automatically rotated when a new WebSocket connection is established:

- Rotation keeps the last ~1MB of log data (configurable via `xterm.rotated_log_size_mb`)
- Existing WebSocket connections receive a "reconnect" message and must reconnect
- Rotation happens via: stop pipe-pane → truncate to target size → restart pipe-pane

Configure these settings in the web dashboard under **Advanced → Advanced Settings**.

---

## Disposal

Explicitly dispose sessions when you're done with them:

```bash
schmux dispose <session-id>
```

- Removes session from tracking
- Deletes tmux session
- Does NOT delete the workspace (workspaces are managed separately)
- Confirmation required (describes effects)

---

## State

Session state is stored at `~/.schmux/state.json` and managed automatically:

- Session ID, workspace, target, nickname
- Creation time, last activity time
- Status (spawning, running, done, disposed)
- Git status at time of spawning

Commit message:

Add spawn form draft persistence to dashboard
Preserve spawn form state in browser sessionStorage so users don't lose
their prompt if they navigate away or refresh the page. Drafts are stored
per-tab and per-workspace, and auto-clear only when at least one session
spawns successfully.

docs/sessions.md, after:

# Sessions

**Problem:** Most agent orchestration focuses on agents talking to each other, batch operations, and strict sandboxes. This makes it hard for *you* to see what's happening or step in when needed. For long-running agent work, you need a lightweight, local solution where you can observe, review, and interject at any point—with sessions that persist if you disconnect, preserve history, and can be reviewed after completion.

**Problem:** Even with visibility, there's grunt work—spinning up sessions, creating workspaces, typing the same prompts. These small tasks steal attention from the actual problem you're trying to solve.

---

## Tmux-Based Sessions

Each coding agent runs interactively in its own tmux session.

- Sessions persist after the agent process exits
- Attach via terminal anytime: `tmux attach -t schmux-<session-id>`
- Full terminal access for debugging or manual intervention

---

## Session Lifecycle

```
spawning → running → done → disposed
```

- **Spawning**: Creating the workspace and starting the agent
- **Running**: Agent is actively working
- **Done**: Agent has exited; session preserved for review
- **Disposed**: Session removed from tracking; tmux session deleted

---

## Spawning Sessions

### New Workspace
Creates a fresh git clone with a clean slate:

```bash
schmux spawn -t claude -r myproject -b feature-branch
```

### Existing Workspace
Reuses directory; adds another agent to the mix:

```bash
schmux spawn -t codex -w myproject-001
```

### Options
- `-t, --target`: Which target to run (detected tool, variant, or user-defined)
- `-r, --repo`: Repository name (for new workspace)
- `-b, --branch`: Git branch to checkout
- `-w, --workspace`: Existing workspace ID
- `-n, --nickname`: Optional nickname for easy identification
- `-p, --prompt`: Optional prompt to send

---

## Bulk Operations

Spawn multiple sessions at once:

```bash
schmux spawn -t claude -t codex -t gemini -r myproject -b feature-x
```

Dashboard also supports:
- **Bulk create sessions** across the same or new workspaces
- **On-demand workspace creation** when spawning
- **Nicknames** for easy identification

---

## Spawn Draft Persistence

The dashboard preserves your spawn form state in browser sessionStorage, so you don't lose your prompt if you navigate away or refresh:

- **Per-tab isolation**: Each browser tab maintains its own draft (sessionStorage is per-tab and per-origin)
- **Per-workspace drafts**: Fresh spawns and existing workspace spawns are stored separately
- **Auto-save**: Prompt, mode, targets, and repo selection are saved as you type
- **Auto-clear on success**: Draft is cleared only when at least one session spawns successfully

Storage keys:
- `spawn-draft-fresh` — new workspace spawns
- `spawn-draft-{workspaceId}` — spawning into existing workspace

Drafts survive navigation and page refresh within the same tab, but are cleared when the tab is closed.

---

## Visibility

Now you've got a dozen concurrent sessions. You don't want to spend your day clicking into each terminal to figure out what's happening. You need to know at a glance: which are still working, which are blocked, which are done, which you've already reviewed, and where to focus your attention next.

### Dashboard Shows

- **Real-time terminal output** via WebSocket
- **Last activity**: When the agent last produced output
- **When you last viewed**: Timestamp of when you last looked at the session
- **NudgeNik status**: Blocked, wants feedback, working, or done

### Status Indicators

- **Running**: Agent is actively working
- **Stopped**: Agent has exited (done)
- **Waiting**: Agent is waiting for input or approval
- **Error**: Session failed to start or crashed

---

## Attach Commands

Each session has a tmux attach command for direct terminal access:

```bash
tmux attach -t schmux-abc123
```

Available from:
- Dashboard: Copy attach command button
- CLI: `schmux attach <session-id>`

---

## Session Persistence

Sessions persist after the agent process exits for review:

- Terminal output is preserved
- Session remains in dashboard
- Mark as done when finished
- Dispose explicitly when no longer needed

---

## Log Rotation

Terminal logs are stored in `~/.schmux/logs/<session-id>.log`. When a log file exceeds the configured size threshold (`xterm.max_log_size_mb`, default 50MB), it's automatically rotated when a new WebSocket connection is established:

- Rotation keeps the last ~1MB of log data (configurable via `xterm.rotated_log_size_mb`)
- Existing WebSocket connections receive a "reconnect" message and must reconnect
- Rotation happens via: stop pipe-pane → truncate to target size → restart pipe-pane

Configure these settings in the web dashboard under **Advanced → Advanced Settings**.

---

## Disposal

Explicitly dispose sessions when you're done with them:

```bash
schmux dispose <session-id>
```

- Removes session from tracking
- Deletes tmux session
- Does NOT delete the workspace (workspaces are managed separately)
- Confirmation required (describes effects)

---

## State

Session state is stored at `~/.schmux/state.json` and managed automatically:

- Session ID, workspace, target, nickname
- Creation time, last activity time
- Status (spawning, running, done, disposed)
- Git status at time of spawning
