docs/web.md, before:

# Web Dashboard

**Problem:** Some tasks are faster from a terminal; others benefit from visual UI. Tools that force you into one interface create friction when the other would be better for the job.

---

## Dashboard Purpose

The web dashboard is for **observability and orchestration**:

- See all your sessions and workspaces at a glance
- Monitor real-time terminal output
- Spawn and manage sessions visually
- Compare results across agents via git diffs

The CLI is for **speed and scripting**:

- Quick commands from the terminal
- Scriptable operations
- JSON output for automation

---

## UX Principles

### 1. Information Density Without Chaos

- Default views are compact, scannable, sortable/filterable
- Details are on-demand via drill-in

### 2. Status Is First-Class

- Running/stopped/waiting/error visually consistent everywhere
- Real-time connection state is explicit

### 3. Destructive Actions Are Slow

- "Dispose" is always clearly destructive
- Confirmations describe _effects_, not just "Are you sure?"

### 4. URLs Are Idempotent

- All routes are bookmarkable and reloadable
- URL changes reflect current view; refreshing shows the same thing

### 5. Calm UI

- Avoid layout jump, flashing, and spammy notifications
- Background changes do not steal focus

---

## Pages

Open `http://localhost:7337` after starting the daemon.

### Tips (`/`, `/tips`)

Default landing page. tmux keyboard shortcuts and quick reference.

**Features:**

- tmux key bindings reference
- Common workflows
- Quick links to other pages

### Session Detail (`/sessions/:id`)

Watch terminal output and manage a session.

**Layout:**

- Left: Live terminal via xterm.js (auto-focused on entry), resizes dynamically to fill available space
- Right: Metadata and actions, plus tabbed interface

**Terminal resizing:** The terminal viewport automatically adjusts its dimensions when the browser window is resized, maintaining proper aspect ratio and content layout.

**Workspace header:**

- Workspace info, branch (clickable when remote exists), ahead/behind counts
- Line changes (+N/-M color-coded)
- Horizontal wrapping tabs for session switching

**Session tabs:**

- Switch between multiple sessions in the same workspace
- Terminal viewer area connects visually to tabs
- Shows "Stopped" instead of time for stopped sessions

**Diff tab:**

- "X files +Y/-Z" tab appears when workspace has changes
- Integrated diff view with same header structure
- Resizable file list sidebar (localStorage persistence)
- Filename prominently displayed with directory path in smaller text
- Per-file lines added/removed instead of status badge

**Actions:**

- Copy attach command
- Dispose session
- Open diff, open workspace in VS Code

**Keyboard shortcuts (dashboard):**

- `Cmd+K` (or `Ctrl+K`) to enter keyboard mode
- `1-9` jump to session by index (1 = first)
- `K` then `1-9` jump to workspace by index (left nav order)
- `W` dispose session (session detail only)
- `Shift+W` dispose workspace (workspace only)
- `V` open workspace in VS Code (workspace only)
- `D` go to diff page (workspace only)
- `G` go to git graph (workspace only)
- `N` spawn new session (context-aware)
- `Shift+N` spawn new session (always general)
- `H` go to home
- `?` show keyboard shortcuts help
- `Esc` cancel keyboard mode

### Spawn (`/spawn`)

Single-page wizard to start new sessions. Prompt-first design for faster workflow.

**Layout:**

- **Prompt first**: Large textarea for task description at top
- **Parallel configuration**: Repo/branch selection and target configuration below
- **AI branch suggestions**: Branch name suggestions based on prompt (when creating new workspace)
- **Enter to submit**: Press Enter in branch/nickname fields to spawn

**When spawning into existing workspace:**

- Shows workspace context (header + tabs)
- Auto-navigates to new session after successful spawn

**Quick launch (inline):**

- "+" button in session tabs bar opens dropdown
- Quick launch presets for one-click spawning
- "Custom..." option opens full spawn wizard

**Results panel:**

- Created sessions (with links)
- Failures (agent + reason + full prompt attempted)
- "Back to Sessions" CTA

### Diff (`/diff/:workspaceId`)

View git changes for a workspace.

**Features:**

- Side-by-side diff viewer
- See what agents changed
- Compare across multiple workspaces

### Settings (`/config`)

Configure repos, run targets, models, and workspace path.

**Edit mode:**

- Sticky header with "Save Changes" button (persistent while editing)
- Compact step navigation for quick section switching
- Distinction from first-run wizard: guided onboarding uses original header/footer navigation

**Features:**

- Repository management
- Run target configuration (edit modals for user-defined targets)
- Quick launch item editing (prompts for promptable targets, commands for command targets)
- Model secrets (for third-party models)
- Workspace overlay status
- Access control (network access + optional GitHub auth)

### Authentication (Optional)

When enabled, the dashboard requires GitHub login and runs over HTTPS. Configure this under **Settings → Advanced → Access Control** or via `schmux auth github`.

Notes:

- `public_base_url` is the canonical URL used for OAuth callbacks and derived CORS origins.
- TLS cert/key paths must be configured for the daemon to start with auth enabled.
- Callback URL must be `https://<public_base_url>/auth/callback`.

---

## Real-Time Updates

### Connection Status

Always-visible pill: Connected / Reconnecting / Offline

### Update Behavior

- Show connection indicator
- Do not collapse expanded items
- Do not reorder rows while user is interacting
- Preserve scroll position in log views (unless "Follow tail" is enabled)

---

## Design System

### Design Tokens

All styling uses CSS custom properties:

```css
:root {
  --color-surface: #ffffff;
  --color-text: #1a1a1a;
  --color-accent: #0066cc;
  --spacing-md: 12px;
  --radius-md: 6px;
}
```

### Dark Mode

First-class support via `[data-theme="dark"]` attribute. Persists to localStorage.

### Accessibility

- Focus states visible
- Dialogs trap focus; Esc closes
- ARIA labels for icon-only buttons
- Color is never the only signal (status includes text)

---

## Component Inventory

### Primitives

- Button, IconButton, Badge, StatusPill, Card, Divider, Tabs
- Table, FormField, TextInput, Textarea, Select, Combobox
- Dialog, ConfirmDialog, Toast, Toaster, Banner, Tooltip
- CopyField, Skeleton, Spinner

### Domain Components

- SpawnWizard (multi-step form)
- SessionDetailView (terminal + metadata)
- LogViewer (xterm.js wrapper)

---

## Notifications

- **Toast**: Ephemeral feedback for completed actions (auto-dismiss)
- **Banner**: Persistent for connection loss, daemon not running
- **Inline error**: Form validation, field-level issues
- **Dialog**: Destructive confirmation, irreversible action

---

## Destructive Actions

Dispose patterns:

**Default**: Confirm dialog with explicit outcome

```
Dispose session X (agent: Y)?
Effects: Stops tracking, closes stream, tmux session deleted
```

**Higher-risk** (future: delete workspace): Typed confirmation

```
Type workspace ID to confirm: myproject-001
```

Commit message:

Add workspace preview proxy with automatic dev server detection
Introduce ephemeral reverse proxies that automatically detect and expose
workspace dev servers (Vite, Next.js, etc.) through stable dashboard URLs.

Key features:
- Auto-detect listening ports via terminal output scanning and process
  port monitoring (lsof on macOS, ss on Linux)
- Create reverse proxies on daemon-assigned ephemeral ports that forward
  to workspace-local targets (e.g., localhost:5173 -> proxy:51853)
- Support WebSocket upgrades for HMR and live reload
- Reuse existing proxies for same workspace + target combination
- Health check and status tracking (ready/degraded states)
- Cleanup when sessions dispose or servers stop listening

Dashboard integration:
- Preview tabs appear alongside session tabs in workspace view
- Manual preview creation via port prompt in workspace header
- Embedded iframe preview page with keep-alive management
- External browser open option

Security:
- Proxy targets restricted to loopback addresses only
- Remote workspaces blocked (phase 1 limitation)
- Workspace ownership validated for all preview operations

Backend components:
- New preview package with Manager for proxy lifecycle
- Auto-detection loop scans terminal output for port patterns
- Process port verification before creating previews
- Configurable per-workspace (3) and global (20) preview limits

API endpoints:
- POST /api/workspaces/{id}/previews - create or reuse preview
- GET /api/workspaces/{id}/previews - list workspace previews
- DELETE /api/workspaces/{id}/previews/{id} - delete preview

docs/web.md, after:

# Web Dashboard

**Problem:** Some tasks are faster from a terminal; others benefit from visual UI. Tools that force you into one interface create friction when the other would be better for the job.

---

## Dashboard Purpose

The web dashboard is for **observability and orchestration**:

- See all your sessions and workspaces at a glance
- Monitor real-time terminal output
- Spawn and manage sessions visually
- Compare results across agents via git diffs

The CLI is for **speed and scripting**:

- Quick commands from the terminal
- Scriptable operations
- JSON output for automation

---

## UX Principles

### 1. Information Density Without Chaos

- Default views are compact, scannable, sortable/filterable
- Details are on-demand via drill-in

### 2. Status Is First-Class

- Running/stopped/waiting/error visually consistent everywhere
- Real-time connection state is explicit

### 3. Destructive Actions Are Slow

- "Dispose" is always clearly destructive
- Confirmations describe _effects_, not just "Are you sure?"

### 4. URLs Are Idempotent

- All routes are bookmarkable and reloadable
- URL changes reflect current view; refreshing shows the same thing

### 5. Calm UI

- Avoid layout jump, flashing, and spammy notifications
- Background changes do not steal focus

---

## Pages

Open `http://localhost:7337` after starting the daemon.

### Tips (`/`, `/tips`)

Default landing page. tmux keyboard shortcuts and quick reference.

**Features:**

- tmux key bindings reference
- Common workflows
- Quick links to other pages

### Session Detail (`/sessions/:id`)

Watch terminal output and manage a session.

**Layout:**

- Left: Live terminal via xterm.js (auto-focused on entry), resizes dynamically to fill available space
- Right: Metadata and actions, plus tabbed interface

**Terminal resizing:** The terminal viewport automatically adjusts its dimensions when the browser window is resized, maintaining proper aspect ratio and content layout.

**Workspace header:**

- Workspace info, branch (clickable when remote exists), ahead/behind counts
- Line changes (+N/-M color-coded)
- Horizontal wrapping tabs for session switching

**Session tabs:**

- Switch between multiple sessions in the same workspace
- Terminal viewer area connects visually to tabs
- Shows "Stopped" instead of time for stopped sessions

**Diff tab:**

- "X files +Y/-Z" tab appears when workspace has changes
- Integrated diff view with same header structure
- Resizable file list sidebar (localStorage persistence)
- Filename prominently displayed with directory path in smaller text
- Per-file lines added/removed instead of status badge

**Actions:**

- Copy attach command
- Dispose session
- Open diff, open workspace in VS Code
- Open Preview (prompts for target port, opens a local ephemeral proxy URL)

**Preview notes:**

- Previews are ephemeral — not persisted, auto-detected from running dev servers
- Tabs appear as `web:<port>` in the workspace tab bar
- Auto-cleaned when upstream server dies or session is disposed
- Clicking preview tab opens in-app; use modifier key (Cmd/Ctrl/Shift) for external browser
- Remote-host workspaces are not supported yet
- When running with `bind_address=0.0.0.0`, preview is only available to local clients on the daemon host

**Keyboard shortcuts (dashboard):**

- `Cmd+K` (or `Ctrl+K`) to enter keyboard mode
- `1-9` jump to session by index (1 = first)
- `K` then `1-9` jump to workspace by index (left nav order)
- `Cmd+Left/Right` cycle through workspace tabs (sessions, previews, diff, git)
- `Cmd+Up/Down` cycle through workspaces
- `W` dispose session (session detail only)
- `Shift+W` dispose workspace (workspace only)
- `V` open workspace in VS Code (workspace only)
- `D` go to diff page (workspace only)
- `G` go to git graph (workspace only)
- `N` spawn new session (context-aware)
- `Shift+N` spawn new session (always general)
- `H` go to home
- `?` show keyboard shortcuts help
- `Esc` cancel keyboard mode

### Spawn (`/spawn`)

Single-page wizard to start new sessions. Prompt-first design for faster workflow.

**Layout:**

- **Prompt first**: Large textarea for task description at top
- **Parallel configuration**: Repo/branch selection and target configuration below
- **AI branch suggestions**: Branch name suggestions based on prompt (when creating new workspace)
- **Enter to submit**: Press Enter in branch/nickname fields to spawn

**When spawning into existing workspace:**

- Shows workspace context (header + tabs)
- Auto-navigates to new session after successful spawn

**Quick launch (inline):**

- "+" button in session tabs bar opens dropdown
- Quick launch presets for one-click spawning
- "Custom..." option opens full spawn wizard

**Results panel:**

- Created sessions (with links)
- Failures (agent + reason + full prompt attempted)
- "Back to Sessions" CTA

### Diff (`/diff/:workspaceId`)

View git changes for a workspace.

**Features:**

- Side-by-side diff viewer
- See what agents changed
- Compare across multiple workspaces

### Settings (`/config`)

Configure repos, run targets, models, and workspace path.

**Edit mode:**

- Sticky header with "Save Changes" button (persistent while editing)
- Compact step navigation for quick section switching
- Distinction from first-run wizard: guided onboarding uses original header/footer navigation

**Features:**

- Repository management
- Run target configuration (edit modals for user-defined targets)
- Quick launch item editing (prompts for promptable targets, commands for command targets)
- Model secrets (for third-party models)
- Workspace overlay status
- Access control (network access + optional GitHub auth)

### Authentication (Optional)

When enabled, the dashboard requires GitHub login and runs over HTTPS. Configure this under **Settings → Advanced → Access Control** or via `schmux auth github`.

Notes:

- `public_base_url` is the canonical URL used for OAuth callbacks and derived CORS origins.
- TLS cert/key paths must be configured for the daemon to start with auth enabled.
- Callback URL must be `https://<public_base_url>/auth/callback`.

---

## Real-Time Updates

### Connection Status

Always-visible pill: Connected / Reconnecting / Offline

### Update Behavior

- Show connection indicator
- Do not collapse expanded items
- Do not reorder rows while user is interacting
- Preserve scroll position in log views (unless "Follow tail" is enabled)

---

## Design System

### Design Tokens

All styling uses CSS custom properties:

```css
:root {
  --color-surface: #ffffff;
  --color-text: #1a1a1a;
  --color-accent: #0066cc;
  --spacing-md: 12px;
  --radius-md: 6px;
}
```

### Dark Mode

First-class support via `[data-theme="dark"]` attribute. Persists to localStorage.

### Accessibility

- Focus states visible
- Dialogs trap focus; Esc closes
- ARIA labels for icon-only buttons
- Color is never the only signal (status includes text)

---

## Component Inventory

### Primitives

- Button, IconButton, Badge, StatusPill, Card, Divider, Tabs
- Table, FormField, TextInput, Textarea, Select, Combobox
- Dialog, ConfirmDialog, Toast, Toaster, Banner, Tooltip
- CopyField, Skeleton, Spinner

### Domain Components

- SpawnWizard (multi-step form)
- SessionDetailView (terminal + metadata)
- LogViewer (xterm.js wrapper)

---

## Notifications

- **Toast**: Ephemeral feedback for completed actions (auto-dismiss)
- **Banner**: Persistent for connection loss, daemon not running
- **Inline error**: Form validation, field-level issues
- **Dialog**: Destructive confirmation, irreversible action

---

## Destructive Actions

Dispose patterns:

**Default**: Confirm dialog with explicit outcome

```
Dispose session X (agent: Y)?
Effects: Stops tracking, closes stream, tmux session deleted
```

**Higher-risk** (future: delete workspace): Typed confirmation

```
Type workspace ID to confirm: myproject-001
```
